Smartphones Influence on Youth
Are you aggravated with seeing your child constantly lying around with their phones to their face? If so, you are not alone. I have twin girls, fifteen years of age and they do just that, lie around from sunup to sundown looking at those phones. I don't know about you, but to me that is so annoying. When schools closed, and activities were no longer available for the youth, the usage of cellphones increased. Parents oversee what our kids can and cannot do; therefore, I can only be annoyed with myself. What could possibly be that important, that nothing else in the world really matters? Well, at least that's how the younger generation acts. Cellphones these days are made to do a little of everything, from reading books to playing games. Smartphones are more harmful to our youth than helpful. Parents need to become more involved in supervising their youth while they are on their phones.
When cellphones first came out, they were not as smart as they are now. All we were able to do was talk, text, and take pictures and the picture's quality was not as good as it is today. Now you can read books, bank online, download apps, pay bills, do schoolwork, keep track of your health and more, that's the reason they are called smartphones. Whoever made phones so smart did not realize that they were making people dumb. Smartphones are a big distraction when it comes to school. Our youth are too focused on what’s happening on social media, instead of what’s going in the classroom. They do not have critical thinking skills or problem-solving skills. Here is an example; my daughters catch the bus to and from school. Every morning before I leave for work, I asked if they have their house key. This one morning I asked, they said yes, but didn’t check before leaving the house. I’m at work and I hear my phone going off constantly. I stepped away from my desk to see who was calling my phone and sending millions of texts, yes you guessed it, my daughters. The problem was they couldn’t find their key and was sitting outside. We live in an apartment building. They wanted me to leave work to come let them in the house. Long story short, they checked at the bus stop that morning and had the key, but now they don’t see it. They sat outside for thirty minutes and finally found the key in the book bag. The moral of the story is, they couldn’t think of no other way to get in the apartment. They could have rung someone else’s apartment to let them in from out of the cold or either went to the leasing office and waited for me to get there or even asked them to let them in. This is a prime example of not being able problem solve or critical think. 
With today's smartphones, all you have to do is command the phone to do something or ask it a question and there it is, the answer to what you need is on the screen with many choices. When I was growing up, my friends and I had to use our brains. When we needed to look up definitions to words, we had to look in the dictionary or if we had to write an essay about someone famous, we used encyclopedias. It was also a must for us to remember phone numbers. We used phonebooks back then. We didn't have a cellphone that stored phone numbers for you. All you have to do today is, press a number on the cellphone, or go to the contacts list, click on the name of the person you want to call. Today, our youth don't have to think hard or use their brains because they have smartphones to do the thinking for them. Not only does smartphones think for our youth, but they also affect our youth's eyesight.
